writeup1_update.md, before:

# Writeup: Track 3D-Objects

## When the code is functional, you are supposed to use the viewer to locate and closely inspect point-clouds on vehicles and write a short report that includes the following items:

### 1. Find and display 10 examples of vehicles with varying degrees of visibility in the point-cloud
Identify vehicle features that appear as a stable feature on most vehicles (e.g. rear-bumper, tail-lights) and describe them briefly. Also, use the range image viewer from the last example to underpin your findings using the lidar intensity channe

First, we defined the limits of the points outside our area of interest, then we use `np.where` to show points within the limits we defined by:
``` 
mask = np.where((lidar_pcl[:, 0] >= lim_x[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 0] <= lim_x[1]) &
                   (lidar_pcl[:, 1] >= lim_y[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 1] <= lim_y[1]) &
                   (lidar_pcl[:, 2] >= lim_z[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 2] <= lim_z[1]))
lidar_pcl = lidar_pcl[mask] 
``` 
then we implement it in `object_pcl.py` and convert the point data to an 8-bit integer in the `load_range_image` function 

```
    img_range_intensity = np.vstack((ri_range, ri_intensity))
    img_range_intensity = img_range_intensity.astype(np.uint8)
```
![ID_1SDEX1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151233548-40c55a33-5341-4af2-a244-84c5e0579614.png)

The output of the vizualization `'show_pcl'` was the following LiDAR point-cloud:

It can be seen that most vehicles have the same height and display their features with the same colors, that way we can identify the objects

![EX222](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462311-c1844f07-babf-4f7c-94f8-7c1622701be7.png)

![EX244](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462316-d5b97dca-280b-44d7-95c4-d81adf37d5c0.png)

![EX21](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462318-1f301471-7d2f-4d42-8a9c-33eda05dda8b.png)

![EX24](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462319-ab5ded89-1e37-459a-a654-37e3d2543703.png)

![EX26](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462321-e7d36884-062d-45b7-a123-97306e21b803.png)

![ID_SD_EX2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151234219-5939d302-70a9-402d-bd74-efddce58104a.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182251](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722471-5d623f90-7e68-4cf6-89cf-640003164b85.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182338](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722474-8da8cb0f-2dc6-4aa2-937d-c1bf780fc554.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182426](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722478-641e99fa-ca54-4947-a5b3-7b25bfa8715c.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182517](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722490-1a1b5861-a9cb-4304-9a37-b22d59f4a81f.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182604](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722501-0b98a8f0-8423-4963-9d87-a9907728b9c1.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182907](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722503-a411e5cc-e0f1-479b-8452-50c3ccf1600f.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 183000](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722509-b48de0ac-f213-4ae7-bfd1-21101355163c.png)

### 2. Identify vehicle features that appear as a stable feature on most vehicles (e.g. rear-bumper, tail-lights) and describe them briefly. Also, use the range image viewer from the last example to underpin your findings using the lidar intensity channel.

Then I computed the intensity and height layers of the BEV map by implementing the `bev_from_pcl` function, and the output was the following:


![ID_S2_EX1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151234143-62fa88e3-4c84-48fb-ab93-3e3d64340851.png)

intensity:

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191555](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687655-dd85a81f-cc3b-4670-8d15-2ab5daeb6784.png)


![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191441](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687645-9ae45b8d-03d1-4ca3-bc2d-4e71b780bec6.png)

height:

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191641](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687690-67796ba6-4270-4852-aa20-578ba309b21a.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 192002](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687692-ea95658c-c5f2-4b44-a0f1-1c4d63ddf184.png)

Checked if visualization working:


![Screenshot 2022-01-29 222200](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687826-93a690a1-aa44-4e09-9e74-a812c224717e.png)

I also used the ResNet model and implemented the `detect_objecst` function to extract 3D bounding boxes 

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 225120](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687781-271f69a2-a3f9-4a77-91cf-04426b415782.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-27 224310](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687797-6260e4a0-7fb0-446e-8287-862be1d47164.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 224942](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687801-faf6374c-9b6a-4875-ab34-4179e77d6f40.png)

Then I used the DarkNET model, and Evaluated the model's performance


![Screenshot 2022-01-30 000345](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687837-098cecc6-c7c9-4d65-9fb9-d41f690e0619.png)

Commit message:

Added more images and write

writeup1_update.md, after:

# Writeup: Track 3D-Objects

## When the code is functional, you are supposed to use the viewer to locate and closely inspect point-clouds on vehicles and write a short report that includes the following items:

### 1. Find and display 10 examples of vehicles with varying degrees of visibility in the point-cloud
Identify vehicle features that appear as a stable feature on most vehicles (e.g. rear-bumper, tail-lights) and describe them briefly. Also, use the range image viewer from the last example to underpin your findings using the lidar intensity channe

First, we defined the limits of the points outside our area of interest, then we use `np.where` to show points within the limits we defined by:
``` 
mask = np.where((lidar_pcl[:, 0] >= lim_x[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 0] <= lim_x[1]) &
                   (lidar_pcl[:, 1] >= lim_y[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 1] <= lim_y[1]) &
                   (lidar_pcl[:, 2] >= lim_z[0]) & (lidar_pcl[:, 2] <= lim_z[1]))
lidar_pcl = lidar_pcl[mask] 
``` 
then we implement it in `object_pcl.py` and convert the point data to an 8-bit integer in the `load_range_image` function 

```
    img_range_intensity = np.vstack((ri_range, ri_intensity))
    img_range_intensity = img_range_intensity.astype(np.uint8)
```
![ID_1SDEX1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151233548-40c55a33-5341-4af2-a244-84c5e0579614.png)

The output of the vizualization `'show_pcl'` was the following LiDAR point-cloud:

It can be seen that most vehicles have the same height and display their features with the same colors, that way we can identify the objects

![EX222](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462311-c1844f07-babf-4f7c-94f8-7c1622701be7.png)

![EX244](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462316-d5b97dca-280b-44d7-95c4-d81adf37d5c0.png)

![EX21](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462318-1f301471-7d2f-4d42-8a9c-33eda05dda8b.png)

![EX24](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462319-ab5ded89-1e37-459a-a654-37e3d2543703.png)

![EX26](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151462321-e7d36884-062d-45b7-a123-97306e21b803.png)

The image below shows a truck's bed, next to the test vehicle

![ID_SD_EX2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151234219-5939d302-70a9-402d-bd74-efddce58104a.png)

While other images below view most of the vehicles features such as front and back bumper

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182251](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722471-5d623f90-7e68-4cf6-89cf-640003164b85.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182338](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722474-8da8cb0f-2dc6-4aa2-937d-c1bf780fc554.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182426](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722478-641e99fa-ca54-4947-a5b3-7b25bfa8715c.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182517](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722490-1a1b5861-a9cb-4304-9a37-b22d59f4a81f.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182604](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722501-0b98a8f0-8423-4963-9d87-a9907728b9c1.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 182907](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722503-a411e5cc-e0f1-479b-8452-50c3ccf1600f.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-30 183000](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151722509-b48de0ac-f213-4ae7-bfd1-21101355163c.png)

### 2. Identify vehicle features that appear as a stable feature on most vehicles (e.g. rear-bumper, tail-lights) and describe them briefly. Also, use the range image viewer from the last example to underpin your findings using the lidar intensity channel.

Then I computed the intensity and height layers of the BEV map by implementing the `bev_from_pcl` function, and the output was the following:


![ID_S2_EX1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151234143-62fa88e3-4c84-48fb-ab93-3e3d64340851.png)

intensity:

It is difficult to identify objects from this channel,

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191555](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687655-dd85a81f-cc3b-4670-8d15-2ab5daeb6784.png)


![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191441](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687645-9ae45b8d-03d1-4ca3-bc2d-4e71b780bec6.png)

However when we add the height channel below more features can be identified,

height:

As we can see the contour lines aided in applying more visibility,

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 191641](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687690-67796ba6-4270-4852-aa20-578ba309b21a.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 192002](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687692-ea95658c-c5f2-4b44-a0f1-1c4d63ddf184.png)

Checked if visualization working:


![Screenshot 2022-01-29 222200](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687826-93a690a1-aa44-4e09-9e74-a812c224717e.png)

I also used the ResNet model and implemented the `detect_objecst` function to extract 3D bounding boxes 

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 225120](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687781-271f69a2-a3f9-4a77-91cf-04426b415782.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-27 224310](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687797-6260e4a0-7fb0-446e-8287-862be1d47164.png)

![Screenshot 2022-01-29 224942](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687801-faf6374c-9b6a-4875-ab34-4179e77d6f40.png)

Then I used the DarkNET model, and Evaluated the model's performance


![Screenshot 2022-01-30 000345](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79502750/151687837-098cecc6-c7c9-4d65-9fb9-d41f690e0619.png)
